A4: Speculative Story
============================

## Overview

We have spent a lot of time this quarter learning how software user interfaces are programmed, designed, and evaluated. When technological advances made the graphical user interface possible, a rush of innovative programming paradigms laid the foundation for the interfaces we interact with today. But user interfaces and the interactors that control them are no longer confined to a single screen. Our digital experiences continue to diversify across computational systems in ways that make the traditional widgets and toolkits we are familiar with insufficient for interaction. 

Once the only form of interaction, pointing, clicking, and touching have become the baseline for how humans interface with computation. As augmentation, virtualization, speech, motion, and even thought introduce new ways of interacting with digital information, we are once again in need of new interaction paradigms.

## Assignment Details

For this assignment, you will envision *three* new forms of interaction with a non-traditional computational system. You will present your work as a slide deck (Power Point, Keynote, Slides, etc.) using the ideation and prototyping techniques you have learned throughout the Informatics 13x course series as well as the learning outcomes from this class.

### Selecting a Computational System

You are free to explore the interaction space of any non-traditional computational system. The only restriction is that you *cannot* use a desktop or mobile device as your primary system. You are allowed to integrate desktop or mobile devices in your final submission *if* they are used in support of your primary system. For example, you might choose to explore interaction with an augmented reality system. Naturally, this might require the use of a mobile device to render the augmented interactors to a user. Similarly, if you choose an on-body interaction interface, you may need a desktop or mobile device to interpret and process the output of your interactions. 

Some examples of non-traditional computational systems include, but are not limited to:

* Augmented reality
* Virtual reality
* Voice assistants
* Conversational agents
* Wearables (existing or novel)
* On-body interfaces (*e.g.,* using your body as input)
* Brain-computer interfaces (BCI)
* Projected displays
* many more (feel free to share ideas in Zulip if you are unsure)

A good approach to selecting a system is to think about how you would like to interact with digital information that is currently not possible. Then, consider what would be required to make your interaction possible. If it can be accomplished using one of the systems listed above, then select that system. If not, you may need to envision an entirely new computational system!

### Three New Forms

For [A3](../notes/a3.md) you created six widgets to control information on a desktop computer (button, check box, radio button, text input, progress bar, and custom). These widgets represented the point of interaction between a user and system using a keyboard and mouse. For this assignment, you will *envision* three <s>unique</s> distinct points of interaction with your selected system. For example, if your system is a field of view display controlled by hand gestures, then you might create three different gesture sets (*e.g.,* thumbs up to increase volume) to control digital information. The three interactors you create will form the beginning of a toolkit for interfacing with your system.

Your toolkit should build upon and incorporate the principles of software user interfaces that you have learned throughout this class:

* Bridging the gulfs of execution and evaluation
* Affordances
* Conceptual models
* State management
* Interactor (widget) implementation and application
* Accessibility and inclusive design

### Documenting your Concept

There is no programming requirement for this assignment. You will be describing the system and interactions you design using ideation and prototyping techniques like sketching, storyboarding, and mixed-fidelity prototypes. The selection of technique will depend on the system and interactions you decide to create. For example, a gesture-based interaction toolkit does not lend itself to wireframes using a prototyping tool like Figma very well. Rather, sketches, photographs, and storyboards are a much more suitable format for communicating functionality for this type of system. There is no hard requirement on how many or which techniques you use. You should focus on producing enough documentation to clearly communicate your idea (you might consider asking a friend or family member to review your slide deck for clarity before submission).

You will assemble all of your assets in a slide deck using the presentation software of your choosing. A slide deck is a great tool for visually communicating ideas. So while you are required to write some descriptive explanations of your system, your deck should be primarily structured around a "show, don't tell" approach.  

## Submission

To submit your speculative story, export your slide deck to PDF format and upload to Canvas. Your deck should start with a cover slide that includes your name and a brief description of your envisioned system. 

```{note}
We discussed the submission format in detail at the end of Thursday's lecture of week 8. If you are unsure about how to prepare your slide deck, (re)watch the video. Some examples are provided along with some light Q&A from the class.
```

## Grading

Your grade will be based on the criteria listed below. Remember, we do not grade on visual design in this course, so do not focus too much on the visual detail of the materials you produce. Your emphasis should be on the application of the learning outcomes from this course and the communication of your speculative toolkit through your prototypes.

* All materials submitted on time: 0.5 pts
* Submission format requirements met: 0.5 pts
* Application of course learning outcomes: 10 pts
	* Does the toolkit adhere to user-centered and inclusive design principles?
	* Are toolkit interactors accessible? 
* Completeness of prototypes: 8 pts
	* Are all required interactors demonstrated through prototypes?
	* Do prototypes clearly communicate intended functionality?
* Novelty and creativity of your interactors: 1 pts

Total: 20 pts

```{note}
Please note that this is a 20 point assignment designed to replace a traditional final exam. Therefore, you should bring to this assignment a clear demonstration of the knowledge you have gained in this course. You are strongly encouraged to get started on this assignment as soon as possible. Submissions that are rushed are obvious and will be graded accordingly.  
```





