T0: Team and Project Overview
=============================

The start of every software project begins with some planning. The goal for your first team assignment is to get to know each other and lock down what you plan on building. You will be required to establish a regular meeting time with your team, select a scenario from those developed in class, and write a small brief explaining your project concept.

```{code-cell}
:tags: [remove-input]
```
## Assignment Details

To get started, the first thing you should do is meet to discuss how your team will develop its chosen scenario. Once you have settled on a broad project concept, you will submit a document in PDF format to Canvas that includes the following information:

Overview
: A high level description of your project. Start with the scenario that you selected followed by an overview that conveys the project’s purpose in one 3-5 sentence paragraph. You should describe at a high level what you intend to build (e.g., a tweet analysis application) and its purpose (e.g., to help researchers analyze tweets). This is where you should start to mold your chosen scenario into something unique to your group. It is not sufficient to simply restate the scenario. You should build upon it and make it your own.
: A description of the platform you intend to target (e.g., desktop, mobile, wearable, other).

Team
: The names and roles of each member in your group. A good approach to managing your project is to assign responsibilities to each member. So for example:

    Mark: Write all the HTML/CSS required for the project.

    Samantha: Write the Tweet API using jQuery and JavaScript.

    Dylan: Design and layout

For now, don't worry too much about scope. We will work together to refine your requirements as we move throughout the quarter. You are not expected to get this type of document right the first time. A more accurate representation of what you will build will develop as you move through the quarter. So do your best for now to think about the actions that will need to be completed to fulfill the goals of your chosen scenario.

## Submission

To submit, appoint one member of your group to be responsible for assembling your final deliverable into a single packet in the PDF format. The packet must start with a cover page that includes:

* Your team name
* Scenario summary (one sentence that describes your product)
* Team member names
* Date

## Grading

Your team will be given an overall grade that is based on thoroughness and thoughtfulness of your work. It is fairly easy to identify rushed or poorly thought out work, so do not wait to the last minute to finalize your project and roles.

* All materials submitted on time: 0.5 pts
* Submission format requirements met: 0.5 pts
* Completeness of assignment: 1 pt

Total: 2 pts



