T3: Development Check-In
============================

## Overview

Every team has its ebbs and flows over the course of a project. There will be bursts of productivity where you come together as a team with clear thought and creativity to make progress. And there will be stretches of time where you are idle, stuck on a problem, or simply unable to find time to meet. Regardless of how much you have produced so far this quarter, we want to know how things are going. In addition to your mid-quarter and final reports, there will be two development check-ins this quarter. This is the first.


### Part 3: User Evaluation

For the user evaluation you will be assessing the usability of the interface that you designed by conducting a study using the Think Aloud protocol discussed in lecture. Your study should be designed such that participants have an opportunity to interact with at least one aspect of your user interface. 

Each team member is responsible for arranging at least one participant for the study. All team members should participate in each study. 

For each participant you will collect the following demographics:
* Age
* Experience with software interfaces (novice, intermediate, or expert)
* Preferred web browser, computer operating system, and mobile operating system
* Recruiter (team member name)

#### Task Planning

You will plan a series of tasks for your user to complete using your program. Each task should have a clear description, goal, and end-point. You should write as many tasks as you feel are necessary to adequately evaluate the usability of your interface. Since this number will vary greatly depending on your scenario, it is difficult to predict how many each team will need. In general, if you have a sufficiently complex user interface and only prepare 1 or 2 tasks, then it is safe to say that you have not fully evaluated your user interface. 

#### Data Collection
With your testing plan in hand, you will start conducting your usability tests. Present each participant with the exact same introduction (scope, purpose, session detail, etc.) and tasks. If you discover an error with your first participant, do not fix it for the remaining participants unless it is critical to the success of your study (more on this below).

For each user evaluation session, you will collect the following data:

* Task completion results:
	* Did the user successfully complete the task? If not, what happened?
* Errors:
	* Did the user make any mistakes during the task?
	* Did the user encounter errors in the prototype during the task? If so, what happened?
* Time per task:
	* How long did it take the user to complete the task?
* Notes from user reflection:
	* Likes
	* Dislikes
	* Suggestions or recommendations for improving interface
	* Any other subjective data you would like to collect from your user.

Finally, before you conduct your first study, be sure to run at least 1 pilot evaluation with your group. You want to be absolutely sure that everything will work as intended and consistently across all of your participants. A good approach is to pick a member to act as participant and guide them through each task. Try to think about the different ways that someone new to your work might interact with your prototype to ensure that all interactions work properly.

#### Analysis of Results

For your analysis, you will divide your results into two categories: quantitative and qualitative. Your quantitative results will include task completion results, errors, and time per task. These should fit nicely within a table or spreadsheet so that you can get a holistic view of your results across all participants. Once your data is aggregated, you will summarize the results using the following metrics:

1. Average time per task
2. Task completion rate per user
3. Average user error per task

Your qualitative results will include your observation notes and reflection with each participant. Since this is qualitative data, you will need to use your expertise to develop insights about your user interface. Were there common points in your interface where participants stumbled? Was there a feature that participants liked or disliked? Did you observe any unexpected participant behavior that could be improved through changes to your UI? If so, summarize your qualitative analysis in one or two paragraphs and list out the changes you have decided to make. NOTE: You do not have to make these changes!

#### Class Presentations
Each team will present their final prototype and study results during the last week of class. We will discuss the process for these presentations in more detail as the quarter progresses.

## Submission

For this assignment you will submit your materials in two ways:

1. All materials developed in _part 1, 2, and 3_ combined into a single PDF document divided into three sections: 

	 Medium Fidelity Prototypes
	 : This section should include screenshots of all the materials you created. Each screenshot should have a caption that describes the interface. The section should conclude with a summary of the feedback you received during class critique.

	 Functional Prototype
	 : This section should include a screenshot of your function prototype in the browser accompanied by a link to the live version of your prototype.

	 User Evaluation
	 : This section should include all requirements outline in part 3.

	You must also include a cover page with the name of your team, scenario description, and team member names.

	You will submit this document to Canvas.

2. Your functional prototype must be hosted on a public web server that is accessible to the class.


## Grading

```{note}
Some portion of your team must participate during the critique and presentation class activities to get credit for this assignment. Those who actively participate during live class time will receive 4 participation points. If you are unable to attend, you will be able to make up participation points by creating your own presentation or critique videos and submitting them on Canvas.
```

The following criteria will be used to grade your final assignment.

 * All materials submitted on time: 0.5 pts
 * Submission format requirements met: 0.5 pts
 * All requirements for part 1 met: 5 pts
 * All requirements for part 2 met: 10 pts
 * All requirements for part 3 met: 4 pts

Total: 20 pts

You will also be required to individually complete a peer review survey to evaluate the contributions of each of your group members. If you receive a particularly low score, it will effect your participation grade for the course. So make sure that you are effectively contributing to all aspects of this assignment.








## Submission

Submit your check-in as a single single PDF document with clear headings to differentitate each section.

We won't expect this document to fill more than a single page, but if you would like to include figures or diagrams (screenshots, code, pictures, etc.) then a few extra pages is fine.

## Grading

The following criteria will be used to grade your final assignment.

 * Submission format requirements met: 0.25 pts
 * All requirements are met: 0.75 pts

Total: 1 pt






