T5: Development Check-In
============================

## Overview

Every team has its ebbs and flows over the course of a project. There will be bursts of productivity where you come together as a team with clear thought and creativity to make progress. And there will be stretches of time where you are idle, stuck on a problem, or simply unable to find time to meet. Regardless of how much you have produced so far this quarter, we want to know how things are going. In addition to your mid-quarter and final reports, there will be three development check-ins this quarter. This is the second.

```{code-cell}
:tags: [remove-input]
```

## Assignment Details

As with your first development check-in, you will prepare a brief document that outlines your progress for the quarter. However, rather than cover everything, you only need to document what you have accomplished since your last check-in on 4/26. Remember, your outline does not have to be overly detailed. For each of the following sections, simply jot down a few sentences for reach relevant point

Introduction
: Team name
: Team members
: Project summary

Accomplishments
: A list of things you have accomplished so far since T3.

Plan Moving Forward
: A list of things you plan to complete between now and the next development check-in (5/31)

Obstacles
: A list of obstacles, if any, that you have encountered so far.

Concerns
: A list of concerns that you would like your course staff to be aware of. If there is anything in particular you would like feedback on, please say so here.


## Submission

Submit your check-in as a single single PDF document with clear headings to differentitate each section.

We won't expect this document to fill more than a single page, but if you would like to include figures or diagrams (screenshots, code, pictures, etc.) then a few extra pages is fine.

## Grading

The following criteria will be used to grade your final assignment.

 * Submission format requirements met: 0.25 pts
 * All requirements are met: 0.75 pts

Total: 1 pt






